Add KB: Troubleshooting: NFS server setting and mount a NFS storage (#503)
longhorn/website: content/kb/troubleshooting-unable-to-mount-an-nfs-backup-target.md

---

> title: "Troubleshooting: Unable to mount an NFS backup target"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Troubleshooting: Unable to access an NFS backup target"
```

author: James Lu
draft: false
date: 2022-05-27
categories:
  - "backup"
---

## Applicable versions

All Longhorn versions.

## Prerequisite

> Longhorn only supports NFS v4.0, v4.1, v4.2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Longhorn only supports NFS v4.0, v4.1 and v4.2.
```

### How to determine which NFS version is used

* Server side:</br>
The NFS server can support multiple versions by the configuration, so using which version for each connection will actually depend on how the NFS share is mounted by the client .</br>
What versions the server is configured to support:

> ```bash
>     #/proc/fs/nfsd/versions
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```bash
    # /proc/fs/nfsd/versions
    ```
```

Author: Modified, thanks

* Client side:</br>
What versions the NFS mount is configured to support:

```bash
    #nfsstat -m

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Server side:

The NFS server can support multiple versions by the configuration, so using which version for each connection will actually depend on how the NFS share is mounted by the client .</br>
What versions the server is configured to support:

```bash
    #/proc/fs/nfsd/versions
```

* Client side:
* 
What versions the NFS mount is configured to support:

```bash
    #nfsstat -m
```
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same as above

Author: Modified, thanks

> * Server side:</br>
> The NFS server can support multiple versions by the configuration, so using which version for each connection will actually depend on how the NFS share is mounted by the client .</br>
> What versions the server is configured to support:
> 
> ```bash
>     # /proc/fs/nfsd/versions
> ```
> 
> * Client side:</br>
> What versions the NFS mount is configured to support:
> 
> ```bash
>     # nfsstat -m
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Server side:

The NFS server can support multiple versions by the configuration, so using which version for each connection will actually depend on how the NFS share is mounted by the client .</br>
What versions the server is configured to support:

```bash
    # /proc/fs/nfsd/versions
```

* Client side:

What versions the NFS mount is configured to support:

```bash
    # nfsstat -m
```
```

Author: Modified, thanks

## Symptom 1

> After setting up an NFS server, `/etc/exports` is as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up an NFS server and `/etc/exports` is as the below example:
```

```text
/opt/nfs-server 192.168.121.0/24(rw,sync,no_subtree_check,crossmnt,fsid=0)
```

After ensuring the NFS server is ready, go to one instance manager engine pod, then use the longhorn engine CLI to list backups on the NFS server.

```bash
#longhorn backup ls --volume-only nfs://192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server
```

There will be an error about mounting failure.

```text
, error exit status 32: vers=4.2: Failed to execute: mount [-t nfs4 -o nfsvers=4.2 -o actimeo=1 192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server /var/lib/longhorn-backupstore-mounts/192_168_121_170/opt/nfs-server], output mount.nfs4: mounting 192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server failed, reason given by server: No such file or directory
, error exit status 32: Cannot mount using NFSv4
```

### Reason

> For NFSv4, if the **fsid=0** or **fsid=root** option is configured with the exported directory in `/etc/exports`, it means the exported directory is the root of all exported filesystems. The example here is `/opt/nfs-server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For NFSv4, if the `fsid=0` or `fsid=root` option is configured with the exported directory in `/etc/exports`, it means the exported directory is the root of all exported filesystems. The example here is `/opt/nfs-server`.
```

If users try to use the absolute path of the exported directory to list backups, that mounting error will happen.

### Solution

> 1. Mount with the absolute path of the exported directory (ex: `/opt/nfs-server`) on the client side **without** the option "fsid=0" or "fsid=root" on the server side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Mount with the absolute path of the exported directory (ex: `/opt/nfs-server`) on the client side **without** the option `fsid=0` or `fsid=root` on the server side.
```

> 2. Mount with the path "/" on the client side still **with** the option "fsid=0" or "fsid=root" on the server side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Mount with the path "/" on the client side still **with** the option `fsid=0` or `fsid=root` on the server side.
```

## Symptom 2

After updating an NFS target endpoint as the backup target, then start backup operations.

```text
error running create backup command: failed to create backup to nfs://192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server for volume test-for-backup: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = mkdir /var/lib/backupstore/192_168_121_170/opt/nfs-server/backup/longhorn/backupstore: permission denied" , error exit status 1
```

### Reason

> The directory is not accessible by a non-root user due to the option "root_squash" might be used for the exported directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The directory is not accessible by a non-root user due to the option `root_squash` might be used for the exported directory.
```

---
title: "Troubleshooting: Unable to access an NFS backup target"
author: James Lu
draft: false
date: 2022-05-27
categories:
  - "backup"
---

## Applicable versions

All Longhorn versions.

## Prerequisite

Longhorn supports only NFS versions 4.0, 4.1, and 4.2. Users should ensure that both their backup server and client support one of the supported versions.

### How to determine which NFS version is used

* Server side:

Check which versions of NFS are currently enabled.

```bash
  # cat /proc/fs/nfsd/versions
```

* Client side:

What versions the NFS mount is configured to support:

```bash
  # nfsstat -m
```

> ## Symptom 1

Reviewer 2: We can describe the symptom and then provide possible root causes and solutions.

For example,
- Symptom
  The error message on backup UI page complained
  ```
  error exit status 32: vers=4.2: Failed to execute: mount [-t nfs4 -o nfsvers=4.2 -o actimeo=1 192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server /var/lib/longhorn-backupstore-mounts/192_168_121_170/opt/nfs-server], output mount.nfs4: mounting 192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server failed, reason given by server: No such file or directory
  , error exit status 32: Cannot mount using NFSv4"
  ```

- Troubleshooting
  - Possible Reason 1
    Check if the configuration in `/etc/exports` contains `fsid=0`....
    If YES, explain why and how to resolve it.
  - Possible Reason 2
     ....

Author: @derekbit I rewrote Symptom 1 and does it look like what you mentioned?

```bash
  # longhorn backup ls --volume-only nfs://192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server
```

There will be an error about mounting failure.

```text
, error exit status 32: vers=4.2: Failed to execute: mount [-t nfs4 -o nfsvers=4.2 -o actimeo=1 192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server /var/lib/longhorn-backupstore-mounts/192_168_121_170/opt/nfs-server], output mount.nfs4: mounting 192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server failed, reason given by server: No such file or directory
, error exit status 32: Cannot mount using NFSv4
```

### Reason

For NFSv4, if the `fsid=0` or `fsid=root` option is configured with the exported directory in `/etc/exports`, it means the exported directory is the root of all exported filesystems. The example here is `/opt/nfs-server`.

If users try to use the absolute path of the exported directory to list backups, that mounting error will happen.

### Solution

1. Mount with the absolute path of the exported directory (ex: `/opt/nfs-server`) on the client side **without** the option `fsid=0` or `fsid=root` on the server side.

2. Mount with the path "/" on the client side still **with** the option `fsid=0` or `fsid=root` on the server side.

> ## Symptom 2

Reviewer 2: This is an good example for rewriting Symptom 1.

> After updating an NFS target endpoint as the backup target, then start backup operations.

Reviewer 2: Simply mention the symptom is fine.
```suggestion
The Backup page pops up with a permission denied error, for example,
```

```text
error running create backup command: failed to create backup to nfs://192.168.121.170:/opt/nfs-server for volume test-for-backup: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = mkdir /var/lib/backupstore/192_168_121_170/opt/nfs-server/backup/longhorn/backupstore: permission denied" , error exit status 1
```

### Reason

> The directory is not accessible by a non-root user due to the option `root_squash` might be used for the exported directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exported directory is not accessible by non-root users due to the `root_squash` option being used.
```

---
title: "Troubleshooting: Unable to access an NFS backup target"
author: James Lu
draft: false
date: 2022-05-27
categories:
  - "backup"
---

## Applicable versions

All Longhorn versions.

## Prerequisite

Longhorn only supports NFS v4.0, v4.1 and v4.2.

### How to determine which NFS version is used

> 

Author: in Prerequisite? or this section

* Server side:

> The NFS server can support multiple versions by the configuration, so using which version for each connection will actually depend on how the NFS share is mounted by the client.
> 
> What versions the server is configured to support:
> 
> ```bash
>   # cat /proc/fs/nfsd/versions
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: Simply mentioning the purpose of the command is enough.

```suggestion
Check which versions of NFS are currently enabled.

```bash
  # /proc/fs/nfsd/versions
```

```

Author: @derekbit could you take a look again please?

---
title: "Troubleshooting: Unable to access an NFS backup target"
author: James Lu
draft: false
date: 2022-05-27
categories:
  - "backup"
---

## Applicable versions

All Longhorn versions.

## Prerequisite

> Longhorn only supports NFS v4.0, v4.1 and v4.2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Longhorn supports only NFS versions 4.0, 4.1, and 4.2. Users should ensure that both their backup server and client support one of the supported versions.
```

Author: Modified, thanks

### How to determine which NFS version is used

> Longhorn supports only NFS versions 4.0, 4.1, and 4.2. Users should ensure that both their backup server and client support one of the supported versions.

Reviewer 2: Redundant.

Author: Deleted, thanks

* Server side:

> The NFS server can support multiple versions by the configuration, so using which version for each connection will actually depend on how the NFS share is mounted by the client.

Reviewer 2: Remove this part. Just mentioning how to check is enough.

Author: ok, deleted
